This is the First Call for Papers for the 2010 Special Issue of the
Journal of Mathematics and Music, which will focus on the
computational analysis of a Brahms string quartet. Please feel free to
distribute it further, and apologies if you receive multiple copies.


-------------------------------------------------------------



Journal of Mathematics and Music

Special Issue on Computational Music Analysis

First Call For Papers

This is a call for papers for a special issue of the Journal of
Mathematics and Music, to focus on Computational Music Analysis in the
context of Brahms' String Quartet Op. 51 No.1, for publication in
Summer 2010. The Journal of Mathematics and Music aims to advance the
use of mathematical modeling and computational approaches in music
theory, analysis, composition, and performance. It is the official
journal of the Society for Mathematics and Computation in Music, an
international forum for researchers and musicians working at the
intersection of music, mathematics, and computation.  The Journal
launched its inaugural issue at the International Conference on
Mathematics and Computation in Music, in Berlin in 2007.

The Special Issue on Computational Music Analysis welcomes previously
unpublished contributions that present computational approaches of any
type of music analysis, applied to Brahms' String Quartet No.1. The
aim of this issue is to bring together and critically discuss diverse
computational analytical approaches and methodologies, such as
structural, motivic, semiotic, comparative, reductional, harmonic,
transformational and others, using a variety of computational
implementation techniques, including those derived from knowledge
representation, artificial intelligence, mathematical modeling and
machine learning.  By focusing the corpus of application of all
methods to the same piece, similarities, differences and
complementarities among the approaches on both the methodological and
the analytical results levels can be highlighted and discussed.
Authors are particularly encouraged to consider Allen Forte's (1983)
[1] and David Huron's (2001) [2] analyses of the same piece, and
relate them to their own work if possible.

Submission Procedure

Prospective authors should prepare manuscripts according to the
Information for Authors as published on the web at
http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/17459737.asp. Note that papers
should not exceed 5000 words, which corresponds to approximately 10
pages in the Journal. Longer papers have to be of exceptional quality
in order to be accepted. Authors who have already published their
analytical method in detail elsewhere may wish to focus here on the
application and analytical results. The online edition of the Journal
has the capability to provide extended material in the form of sound
files, applets, or similar electronic media. Manuscripts should be
sent to the Guest Editors.

We wish to encourage prospective authors to contact guest editors, by
the end of 2008, indicating their submission intention and any
enquiries about suitability of submissions.

Schedule
Submission deadline: July 15, 2009
Notification of acceptance: November 15, 2009
Final manuscript due: February 15, 2010
Tentative publication date: July 2010

Guest Editors
Christina Anagnostopoulou, chrisa [at] music.uoa.gr, University of
Athens, Athens, GREECE
Chantal Buteau, cbuteau [at] brocku.ca, Brock University,
St.Catharines, Ontario, CANADA

[1] A. Forte, "Motivic design and structural levels in the first
movement of Brahms's String Quartet in C minor", The Musical
Quarterly, Vol. 69 No 4, 1983.
[2] D. Huron, "What is a musical feature? Forte's analysis of Brahms's
opus 51 no 1, revisited", MTO, Vol. 7 No 4, 2001.
